# Welcome to the javadoctools

## Core Features

Apply DRY (Don't repeat yourself!) to your javadoc-documentation:

  - Include comments from your database directly into your javadoc-output.
  - Use your Java-code as single source for comments and deploy them to a database table or column.
  - Generate a glossary with your project's term definitions from your Java-code.

## javadoctool's GlossaryDoclet

Precise communication and deep understanding of the domain is essential to build a system the customer really needs. Both could be improved by a glossary. A glossary is a kind of dictionary, which lists the project's most important terms and describes their meaning. The javadoctools support you to create your glossary pragmatically and close to the code.

### How get it?

TODO

### How use it?

#### Where to put the definitions?

Create a package 'glossary' in your src-folder. For each term create a marker interface in this package. The name of the marker interface must be the term, e.g. 'Car'. Use javadoc to write the term definition as interface-comment and mark it with the tag '@definition'. Consider this example for a car:

	package testpackage;
	
	/**
	 * A car is a vehicle with four wheels.
	 *
	 * @definition
	 */
	public interface Car {}

#### How to use the definitions?

Often you have more than one class in your code to represent a certain concept. Consider an entity-class 'CarEntity' and the data transfer object 'CarDTO' for example. By implementing the marker-interface within these classes you make explicit that they represent the same domain object. In line with the DRY-principle (Don't repeat yourself!), you have the term definition in one single place and you can reference it via '{@inheritDoc}'.

	package testpackage;
	
	/**
	 * {@inheritDoc}
	 */
	@Entity
	@Table(name="Car")
	public class CarEntity implements Car {
		// ...
	}
 
 	package testpackage;
	
	/**
	 * {@inheritDoc}
	 */
	public class CarDTO implements Car, Serializable {
		// ...
	}

#### And what about the glossary?

You're right ;). Writing down the definitions is just the first part. You can use the javadoctool's GlossaryDoclet to generate a single HTML-page as glossary. 

##### Via Maven

TODO

##### Via Gradle 

TODO

##### Via Commandline

	javadoc 
		-of <OUTPUTFILE.HTML>
		-doclet de.jankrause.javadoctools.doclets.GlossaryDoclet 
		-docletpath javadoctools-1.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar
		-classpath ~/Downloads/persistence-api-1.0.jar 
		testpackage/*.java 

#### Integration with Plain Old Javadoc

TODO

### Including comments from a database

Use the @importFromDb tag to copy a comment from a database table or column into the HTML generated by javadoc.

### Deploying comments to a database

Use the @exportToDb tag to deploy a javadoc-comment to a database table or column.

## About the Author

TODO